Weapon finesse: When making an attack with a finesse
weapon, you use your choice of your Strength or
Dexterity modifier for the attack and damage rolls. You
must use the same modifier for both rolls.|
Weapon heavy: Small creatures have disadvantage on attack
rolls with heavy weapons. A heavy weapon’s size and
bulk make it too large for a Small creature to use
effectively.|
Weapon: light. A light weapon is small and easy to handle,
making it ideal for use when fighting with two weapons.
See the rules for two-weapon fighting in chapter 9.|
Weapon: loading. Because of the time required to load this
weapon, you can fire only one piece of ammunition
from it when you use an action, bonus action, or reaction
to fire it, regardless of the number of attacks you can
normally make.|
Weapon: range. A weapon that can be used to make a ranged
attack has a range shown in parentheses after the
ammunition or thrown property. The range lists two
numbers. The first is the weapon’s normal range in feet,
and the second indicates the weapon’s maximum range.
When attacking a target beyond norm al range, you have
disadvantage on the attack roll. You can’t attack a target
beyond the weapon’s long range.|
Weapon: reach: This weapon adds 5 feet to your reach when
you attack with it.|
Special. A weapon with the special property has
unusual rules governing its use, explained in the
weapon’s description (see "Special W eapons" later in
this section).|
Weapon: thrown. If a weapon has the thrown property, you
can throw the weapon to make a ranged attack. If the
weapon is a melee weapon, you use the same ability
modifier for that attack roll and damage roll that you
would use for a melee attack with the weapon. For
example, if you throw a handaxe, you use your Strength,
but if you throw a dagger, you can use either your
Strength or your Dexterity, since the dagger has the
finesse property.|
Weapon: Two-Handed. This weapon requires two hands to use.|
Weapon: Versatile. This weapon can be used with one or two
hands. A damage value in parentheses appears with the
property—the damage when the weapon is used with
two hands to make a melee attack.|
Silvered weapons. Some monsters that have immunity or resistance
to non magical weapons are susceptible to silver
weapons, so cautious adventurers invest extra coin to
plate their weapons with silver. You can silver a single
weapon or ten pieces of ammunition for 100 gp. This
cost represents not only the price of the silver, but the
time and expertise needed to add silver to the weapon
without making it less effective.|
Special weapons: 
Lance. You have disadvantage when you use a lance
to attack a target within 5 feet of you. Also, a lance
requires two hands to wield when you aren’t mounted.
Net. A Large or smaller creature hit by a net is
restrained until it is freed. A net has no effect on
creatures that are form less, or creatures that are Huge
or larger. A creature can use its action to make a DC 10
Strength check, freeing itself or another creature within
its reach on a success. Dealing 5 slashing damage to the
net (AC 10) also frees the creature without harming it,
ending the effect and destroying the net.
When you use an action, bonus action, or reaction
to attack with a net, you can make only one attack
regardless of the number of attacks you can
normally make.|
Acid. 
As an action, you can splash the contents of
this vial onto a creature within 5 feet of you or throw
the vial up to 20 feet, shattering it on impact. In either
case, make a ranged attack against a creature or object,
treating the acid as an improvised weapon. On a hit, the
target takes 2d6 acid damage.|
Alchemist’s Fire. 
This sticky, adhesive fluid ignites when exposed to air. As an action, you can throw this
flask up to 20 feet, shattering it on impact. Make a ranged attack against
a creature or object, treating the alchemist's fire as an improvised weapon. On a
hit, the target takes 1d4 fire damage at the start of
each of its turns. A creature can end this damage by
using its action to make a DC 10 Dexterity check to
extinguish the flames.|
Antitoxin.
A creature that drinks this vial of liquid
gains advantage on saving throws against poison for 1
hour. It confers no benefit to undead or constructs.|
Arcane Focus.
An arcane focus is a special item—
an orb, a crystal, a rod, a specially constructed staff,
a wand-like length of wood, or some similar item—
designed to channel the power of arcane spells. A
sorcerer, warlock, or wizard can use such an item as a
spellcasting focus, as described in chapter 10.|
Ball Bearings. 
As an action, you can spill these tiny
metal balls from their pouch to cover a level area 10
feet square. A creature moving across the covered area
must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw or fall
prone. A creature moving through the area at half speed
doesn’t need to make the saving throw.|
Block and Tackle. 
A set of pulleys with a cable
threaded through them and a hook to attach to objects, a
block and tackle allows you to hoist up to four times the
weight you can normally lift.|
Book. 
A book might contain poetry, historical
accounts, information pertaining to a particular field
of lore, diagrams and notes on gnomish contraptions,
or just about anything else that can be represented
using text or pictures. A book of spells is a spellbook.|
Caltrops. 
As an action, you can spread a single bag
of caltrops to cover a 5-foot-square area. Any creature
that enters the area must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity
saving throw or stop moving and take 1 piercing
damage. Until the creature regains at least 1 hit point,
its walking speed is reduced by 10 feet. A creature
moving through the area at half speed doesn’t need to
make the saving throw.|
Candle. 
For 1 hour, a candle sheds bright light in a
5-foot radius and dim light for an additional 5 feet.|
Case, Crossbow Bolt. 
This wooden case can hold up
to twenty crossbow bolts.|
Case, Map or Scroll. 
This cylindrical leather case can
hold up to ten rolled-up sheets of paper or five rolled-up
sheets of parchment.|
Chain. 
A chain has 10 hit points. It can be burst with a
successful DC 20 Strength check.|
Climber’s Kit. 
A climber’s kit includes special pitons,
boot tips, gloves, and a harness. You can use the
climber’s kit as an action to anchor yourself; when you
do, you can’t fall more than 25 feet from the point where
you anchored yourself, and you can't climb more than 25
feet away from that point without undoing the anchor.|
Component Pouch. 
A component pouch is a small,
watertight leather belt pouch that has compartments
to hold all the material components and other special
items you need to cast your spells, except for those
components that have a specific cost (as indicated in a
spell's description).|
Crowbar. 
Using a crowbar grants advantage
to Strength checks where the crowbar’s leverage
can be applied.|
Druidic Focus. 
A druidic focus might be a sprig of
mistletoe or holly, a wand or scepter made of yew or
another special wood, a staff drawn whole out of a living
tree, or a totem object incorporating feathers, fur, bones,
and teeth from sacred animals. A druid can use such an
object as a spellcasting focus, as described in chapter 10.|
Fishing Tackle. 
This kit includes a w ooden rod, silken
line, corkw ood bobbers, steel hooks, lead sinkers, velvet
lures, and narrow netting.|
Healer’s Kit. 
This kit is a leather pouch containing
bandages, salves, and splints. The kit has ten uses. As
an action, you can expend one use of the kit to stabilize
a creature that has 0 hit points, without needing to make
a W isdom (M edicine) check.|
Holy Symbol. 
A holy symbol is a representation of
a god or pantheon. It might be an amulet depicting a
sym bol representing a deity, the sam e sym bol carefully
engraved or inlaid as an emblem on a shield, or a tiny
box holding a fragment o f a sacred relic. Appendix B
lists the sym bols com m only associated with many gods
in the multiverse. A cleric or paladin can use a holy
sym bol as a spellcasting focus, as described in chapter
10. To use the symbol in this way, the caster must hold it
in hand, w ear it visibly, or bear it on a shield.|
Holy Water. 
As an action, you can splash the contents
of this flask onto a creature within 5 feet of you or throw
it up to 20 feet, shattering it on impact. In either case,
make a ranged attack against a target creature, treating
the holy water as an im provised weapon. If the target is
a fiend or undead, it takes 2d6 radiant damage.
A cleric or paladin may create holy water by
perform ing a special ritual. The ritual takes 1 hour
to perform , uses 25 gp worth of pow dered silver, and
requires the caster to expend a 1st-level spell slot.|
Hunting Trap. 
W hen you use your action to set it,
this trap form s a saw-toothed steel ring that snaps shut
when a creature steps on a pressure plate in the center.
The trap is affixed by a heavy chain to an im m obile
object, such as a tree or a spike driven into the ground.
A creature that steps on the plate must succeed on a DC
13 Dexterity saving throw or take 1d4 piercing damage
and stop moving. Thereafter, until the creature breaks
free of the trap, its movement is limited by the length
o f the chain (typically 3 feet long). A creature can use
its action to make a DC 13 Strength check, freeing
itself or another creature within its reach on a success.
Each failed check deals 1 piercing damage to the
trapped creature.|
Lamp.
A lamp casts bright light in a 15-foot radius
and dim light for an additional 30 feet. Once lit, it burns
for 6 hours on a flask (1 pint) of oil.|
Lantern, Bullseye. 
A bullseye lantern casts bright
light in a 60-foot cone and dim light for an additional 60
feet. Once lit, it burns for 6 hours on a flask (1 pint) of oil.|
Lantern, Hooded. 
A hooded lantern casts bright light
in a 30-foot radius and dim light for an additional 30
feet. Once lit, it burns for 6 hours on a flask (1 pint) of
oil. As an action, you can lower the hood, reducing the
light to dim light in a 5-foot radius.|
Lock. 
A key is provided with the lock. Without the
key, a creature proficient with thieves’ tools can pick
this lock with a successful DC 15 Dexterity check.
Your DM may decide that better locks are available
for higher prices.|
Magnifying Glass. 
This lens allows a closer look at
small objects. It is also useful as a substitute for flint
and steel when starting fires. Lighting a fire with a
magnifying glass requires light as bright as sunlight to
focus, tinder to ignite, and about 5 minutes for the fire
to ignite. A m agnifying glass grants advantage on any
ability check made to appraise or inspect an item that is
small or highly detailed.|
Manacles. 
T hese metal restraints can bind a Sm all
or M edium creature. Escaping the m anacles requires
a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. Breaking them
requires a successful DC 20 Strength check. Each
set of m anacles com es with one key. Without the key,
a creature proficient with thieves’ tools can pick the
m anacles’ lock with a successful DC 15 Dexterity
check. M anacles have 15 hit points.|
Mess Kit. 
This tin box contains a cup and simple
cutlery. The box clam ps together, and one side can
be used as a cooking pan and the other as a plate or
shallow bowl.|
Oil. 
Oil usually com es in a clay flask that holds 1
pint. As an action, you can splash the oil in this flask
onto a creature within 5 feet of you or throw it up to
20 feet, shattering it on impact. Make a ranged attack
against a target creature or object, treating the oil as
an im provised weapon. On a hit, the target is covered
in oil. If the target takes any fire damage before the oil
dries (after 1 minute), the target takes an additional 5
fire damage from the burning oil. You can also pour a
flask of oil on the ground to cover a 5-foot-square area,
provided that the surface is level. If lit, the oil burns for
2 rounds and deals 5 fire damage to any creature that
enters the area or ends its turn in the area. A creature
can take this damage only once per turn.|
Poison, Basic.
You can use the poison in this vial
to coat one slashing or piercing w eapon or up to three
pieces o f ammunition. Applying the poison takes
an action. A creature hit by the poisoned w eapon or
ammunition must make a DC 10 Constitution saving
throw or take 1d4 poison damage. O nce applied, the
poison retains potency for 1 minute before drying.|
Potion of Healing. 
A character w ho drinks the magical
red fluid in this vial regains 2d4 + 2 hit points. Drinking
or administering a potion takes an action.|
Pouch. 
A cloth or leather pouch can hold up to 20
sling bullets or 50 blowgun needles, am ong other
things. A com partm entalized pouch for holding spell
com ponents is called a com ponent pouch (described
earlier in this section).|
Quiver. 
A quiver can hold up to 20 arrows.
Ram, Portable. You can use a portable ram to break
dow n doors. W hen doing so, you gain a +4 bonus on the
Strength check. One other character can help you use
the ram, giving you advantage on this check.|
Rations. 
Rations consist of dry foods suitable
for extended travel, including jerky, dried fruit,
hardtack, and nuts.|
Rope. 
Rope, whether made of hemp or silk, has 2 hit
points and can be burst with a DC 17 Strength check.|
Scale, Merchant’s. 
A scale includes a small balance,
pans, and a suitable assortm ent of weights up to 2
pounds. W ith it, you can m easure the exact weight of
small objects, such as raw precious metals or trade
goods, to help determine their worth.|
Spellbook. 
Essential for wizards, a spellbook is
a leather-bound tome with 100 blank vellum pages
suitable for recording spells.|
Spyglass. 
Objects viewed through a spyglass are
magnified to tw ice their size.|
Tent. 
A simple and portable canvas shelter, a
tent sleeps two.|
Tinderbox. 
This small container holds flint, fire steel,
and tinder (usually dry cloth soaked in light oil) used to
kindle a fire. Using it to light a torch—or anything else
with abundant, exposed fuel—takes an action. Lighting
any other fire takes 1 minute.|
Torch. 
A torch burns for 1 hour, providing bright light
in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20
feet. If you make a m elee attack with a burning torch
and hit, it deals 1 fire damage.|
